---
layout: post
title:  "Schedule"
date:   2018-08-20
excerpt: "Here’s our plan for the semester (subject to revision as needed)."
project: true
tags: [syllabus]
comments: false
---

## Schedule

Here’s our plan for the semester (subject to revision as needed). Readings and other assignments should be completed *prior* to the start of class.

### Modern history

* T, 8/21: Introductions and orientation to the course.
* R, 8/23: Glendon, Chs. 1-2
* T, 8/28: Glendon, Chs. 3-5
* R, 8/30: Glendon, Chs. 6-7
* T, 9/4: Glendon, Chs. 7-8
* R, 9/6: Glendon, Chs. 9-10
* T, 9/11: Glendon, Chs. 10-11
* R, 9/13: Glendon, Ch. 12 & Epilogue
* T, 9/18: **Exam 1**

### Philosophical foundations

* R, 9/20: Perry, “Are Human Rights Universal?”
* T, 9/25: Finish Perry. Shestack, “The Philosophic Foundations of Human Rights”
* R, 9/27: Finish Shestack

### The International Bill of Human Rights

* T, 10/2: Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR)
* R, 10/4: Optional Protocols to the ICCPR. **REFLECTION ESSAY DUE**
* T, 10/9: Optional Protocols, cont.; mid-semester check-in
* R, 10/11: **EXAM 2 (take-home)**

### Other Covenants and their applications

* T, 10/23: Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW)
* R, 10/25: Andrews, “Women’s Human Rights and the Conversation Across Cultures”
* T, 10/30: Freeman, “The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women in the United States: Whether, When, and What If?”
* R, 11/1: Work on the CEDAW country study. **No class meeting**
* T, 11/6: International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families (ICPMW)
* R, 11/8: ICPMW and its implications
* T, 11/13: Continue with ICPMW
* R, 11/15: Finish the ICPMW. **REFLECTION ESSAY DUE**
* T, 11/20: Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and its Optional Protocols
* T, 11/27: More on the CRC. Find and come to class prepared to discuss a children’s rights case.
* R, 11/29: Work on the CEDAW country study.
* T, 12/4: CEDAW country study presentations
* R, 12/6: CEDAW country study presentations

*CEDAW country study presentations will continue during the scheduled final examination period, which is 8:00-10:00 am on Tuesday, December 11.*

